Huh. Yeah. Okay, so, so my 1st question would be, how often do you or have you participated in the hybrid meetings and what is your usual roles in this meetings?
Not very often, rarely when the team comes together in, that is when we go to the conference room and participate in hybrid.
Okay.
Okay. And my road mostly it is a passive role I just usually listen yeah.
Okay.
Okay, okay. How do you prepare for hybrid meetings and how does this differ from a preparation from the other types of meetings?
Is there any kind of a difference? Like when you meet with your with the people physically in a meeting room where there is no like technical infrastructure per present and when you meet the scrum team, in, in, a hybrid setting.
So, how, do you find it different and how do you prepare for these kinds of different meetings?
Okay, like in terms of something like dressing and the way we groom or something like that.
Is that what you mean?
No, no, you might be having some meetings in, your location, right? With, with the people which you work.
Those are one kinds of meetings but hybrid meetings are something which you have to meet with all so the preparation might be a different.
So that's why that's why this is the question. Like how do you prepare for different kinds of meetings?
My own office that is usually I just go unprepared and say what I've done in the past today and what I'm working on like without any preparation on what to say but when meeting in the with the whole team in the in the in the in the hybrid type meeting so that I do some preparation to what to say because, Yeah, it's a more organized type of meeting so I just prepare before I
know what to say and like what activity I just plan what active I'll be picking up and all that.
Okay, okay, okay. Another question is, regarding the meeting flow, can you describe the general atmosphere and flow of a typical hybrid meeting which you attend.
Flow as in like, can you? Hey, on that.
Like how does it go like typically like what is the atmosphere is it is it is it calm? Is it cool?
Is it composed? I mean, how is it?
Yeah, and it's come. Usually, we have, we have the people from the other offices, speaking in the meeting and then, mostly one person from our team in the conference room also will be speaking back and forth and yeah mostly I assume a passive role of listening so yeah it doesn't it's mostly a KAM atmosphere.
Okay, okay. And that comes, that comes from another question. Have you noticed any differences? In how remote and on-site participants engage during the meeting.
So, did you understand this question or should I find it?
Yeah, you, you can, like, elaborate.
Okay, so, there may be possibility that, the people with whom you are on site, you have a better collaboration with, with them as compared to the other people.
Who are in hybrid site who are in hybrid who are attending in hybrid ways so have you noticed any differences in how remote and on-site participants engage during the meetings.
Yeah, personally, I don't find any difference between, you know, collaborating with people who are not, on site and who are not in their office means who are in foreign offices i don't find different collaboration while i'm working in remote mode yeah because everybody is in their own personal space so it's a much more comfortable environment, to work
in. But if you're asking how the collaboration is on in the office Now is that something you want, what you asked?
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, you can go ahead on the point of collaboration. Yeah.
Okay.
Yeah, okay. So if, if I'm collaborating, with my team in the office, right, like, face to face, then i don't find it as comfortable as a remote because i find working alone to be more comfortable rather than you know having 2 people sit together and sharing a monitor screen and then working or something like
that.
Okay, okay, okay, that's cool. In your experience, do you remote participants contribute as much as those who are on site and how do you perceive the contribution of remote participants in comparison to who are on site?
Hmm.
Personally I feel that remote participants do contribute more because on site you have to attend meetings you have to have these you have these programs in the office So there is more, like time gone and, there are more distractions, such, whereas in remote, you're completely in your own environment and, you, have the complete focus even if you don't work for longer
hours you we will have more focus and be more productive is what I feel in the remote.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, agree. So how do you perceive the contribution of remote participants in comparison to those who are on site i mean is it better is it is it worse
Okay. Okay.
It is better in my opinion it is better. A more past my participants do contribute more. Yeah.
Okay. Have you observed any biases or any common views about remote participants? Or the onsite participants.
Do you have any biases like? Okay. They don't they they are they are at the remote location so they might not understand us and all those things all those kinds of things.
No, no, personally I haven't felt any crisis like that. Yeah, as I work both, as I work frequently both in a, remote and on site mode, I don't feel any biases like that.
Okay, or do you have any common views about, any other cross national team? Like cultural or linguistical or anything.
I'm sorry, I didn't get that question. Right.
Yes, yes.
Like we have a cross national team, right? We are working like various countries. So do you have any common views?
Yeah.
Any any views about them about like various countries. So do you have any common views? Any views about them about like culturally linguistically or, some other kind of way?
Oh, okay. Yeah, so.
Like, do you feel that do you feel that the guys who are working, outside your country are a bit different?
They have a different, set of rules, set of style of working. So like that I'm asking about.
Yes, yes, I have felt that, that the, colleagues from my team who are working in different countries usually have a more a different type of approach and working as in they understand the fundamentals more and then only start with the task whereas personally my colleagues in my own office usually jump right into the task so that is one difference yeah, and in terms
of linguistic, issues like it is sometimes difficult to understand. The teams that are when they explain things the colleagues that are in the other countries but yeah but that is not a serious problem because then we just ask and then the repeat and it's clear then.
Okay, okay. So how do you think these dynamics, influence the overall success of the meetings?
Or the team?
This setting this in which we are, how do, how do you think that this setting influence the overall success of the meeting or the team.
Okay, so in my opinion, having 2 different, types of, like, types of culture work cultures actually benefits the team because, you know, something, sometimes we don't.
Grab some things and then the teams across the different countries can be helpful with their understanding and different countries can be helpful with their understanding and same vice.
It is holistically speaking it contributes more towards the success of a team rather than having just one single team in single office.
Okay, okay. Okay. So moving on to the next question. Do you have the feeling that some groups are formed during the onset collaboration?
And if so, what could be the reasons for this?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Oh.
Yeah, I do feel that when people sit next to each other in the office definitely, groups can be formed because Yes, social groups and yeah, and in terms how this reciprocates in the work as in like they in they tend to work together in some tasks and and I don't know it can feel to the other colleagues in the other countries that that a certain group has been found like
that.
Okay, okay. Thanks for thanks for this response. So I'll come, I'll quickly come to the tools used in the hybrid meetings.
So what tools are you, what tools, you use to facilitate the communication or collaboration in the hybrid meetings.
And, the tools which you use, do you find them effective?
Tools might be anything might be anything might be. like like this thing might be like this thing headphones or maybe some other tools.
Oh, okay. That's what was the question again? How do these tools, affect?
Oh, so what tools, what tools are used to facilitate the communication or collaboration and hybrid meetings and do you find them effective?
Okay. Yeah.
Yeah, tools for example can also be your Microsoft Teams, can also be this headphones or like something else.
Okay.
I mean, the basic things which are, which are used to go into these kinds of meetings are So what do you use and do you find them effective?
Okay, so, tools basically that I use, the software tools are, Outlook and, Teams.
Oh yeah.
And, sometimes we even have, sometimes we even have the concept board. We drop plans or even do icebreakers on that.
Yeah, yeah.
So I find it, I find it effective enough for the communication. Speaking about the hardware tools I use this an external microphone which has enough sound microphone quality and like it is as good as speaking face to face like in terms of voice quality.
Okay, okay. How, well do these tools integrate into the meeting environment? Are they really good?
According to you.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yes, yes. So, personally speaking, Teams does integrate very well into the environment because, we can put in a message, right, right as we, write as we are in the meeting and that message can be viewed, mute like seamlessly without any problem.
So Teams integration is quite good. Yeah.
Okay. And, how does the experience of participating in, virtual meetings, or hybrid meetings, compare to the, to the meetings being physically present.
How does the experience, differ to you? Is it, is it something like do you feel neutral?
Do you feel like very, good in the hybrid meetings or do you feel very good in the, physical meetings?
Like, How do you, how do you describe the experience? Overall.
Okay. Yeah.
Okay. Okay. I feel more comfortable in the, remote meetings. In the virtual meetings than the, the physical hybrid meetings because then I'm in my own comfortable comfort zone and I can like focus more on the now and I can like focus more and then ask more questions.
And I can like focus more and then ask more questions more and then ask more questions, so be more productive in a way.
So I would say the virtual meetings are a better choice for me.
Okay, have you encountered any challenges in the hybrid meetings and how have they affected your experience?
No, no challenges I said. Yeah, no, no challenge.
Okay, okay. Then, do you like to share any additional thoughts or experiences regarding the hybrid meetings?
I like, like, can you elaborate on that?
Like, do you have any additional thoughts? How do you feel about, the, hybrid meetings?
The concept of hybrid meetings.
Okay. Yeah, the concept is great. Like, like it's great for collaboration between teams that are in different countries.
But, yeah, personally my thought is, I prefer remote virtual meetings.
Okay, Then, do you have any suggestions for, enhancing the hybrid meeting experience for example, any, more tools can be integrated or something else.
Okay, I'm no I'm not nothing as of currently if I think about it maybe I'll get some.
Yeah, okay, okay. Yeah, no, no, it's not really fine. So last I come to the last question, I probably know its answer, but, I have to ask it which form of meeting do you find suitable?
On site, hybrid or completely remote.
Yeah, yeah, so for me, completely remote is the most comfortable type of meeting. Yeah.
Okay, okay, okay. Now yeah, that's that's that's where my question ends. 