OK, so we can start now. The DPR on mute, sorry I took
your name. Yeah. (...) Hello. Yeah, you are. You are on
mute or you are on mute. Yeah.

 Yeah.

So I I'll just start. So my
first question would be how often have you participated in
the hybrid meetings and what was your usual role during this
sessions?

 So like I have participated like
that. That meeting was a daily daily stand up call. So I was
part of that and my role was I was working as a dev OPS
engineer with a group of the developers and testers. So like
I have to give the updates. What I worked on and what I'll be
working on, yeah.

OK, OK. OK and. Were you often joining remotely,
or were you often joining in in

 Mm hmm.

a in an from an on site
location?

 So when I used to go to office
so like it was a hybrid way of working. So two days office and
three days remotely work from home. So while going two days to
office, I was sitting in the meeting room with other
colleagues and some people will join online who are not in the
office or who are working from other other locations. And three
days I will be joining remotely from my home and some people
will be there in the meeting room. Yeah.

OK. OK. How was your preparation for the
hybrid meetings? I mean, how do you prepare for the hybrid
meetings and how does that differ from your preparation
from other types of meetings?

 I do not feel any difference
kind of thing because just I

Huh.

 have to give the daily update so
it's it's probably the same either I go in in the meeting
room I tell or online I tell so that will be same yeah.

OK. And how was the general
atmosphere and the flow of the hybrid meetings which you
attended?

 I feel I feel good. So let's say
I feel the hybrid meeting concept is good. I feel that
because let's say if some people are working from office and they
have to join the same meeting and let's say some people are
will be joining remotely. OK, fine, they they they will not be
able to come to office or they are in other location that is
OK. But the people who are in office if they join from their
own laptop like they are sitting next to each other but still
like they will join separately from the laptop and.

I.

 I don't feel like that is a good
good practise like it will not be a good atmosphere. Instead
like you just book a meeting room, go inside meeting room and
whoever are in the office, let's say five people are in office
and five people are joining from online. So five people will book
a meeting room, they go to the meeting room and they will sit
together and just from one source, let's say just will
connect one either a scrum master, connect the laptop to
the second screen or the screen which will be there in the. Meeting room. And they will present and the
like. They can tell. OK. I have these peoples in the meeting
room and yeah, online people online. People should also able
to hear them. So like there should be a mic. Separated and like also whatever
online the people who joined online, whatever they are
saying. It should be audible to the
whole meeting room. Yeah, I feel that is a good yeah.

OK. Have you noticed any
differences in how remote and on site participants and interact
during these meetings or engage during these meetings?

 Hmm. I did not get. Can you come
again?

I mean is there, is there a
collaboration difference between? For example, if you are
joining from a location with two or three people, so you might
have a better collaboration and and a remote participants may
not understand you like in in a

 Hmm.

better way. So do you feel that
there are any differences kind on the lines of these things? Any differences on on the? Yeah,
any differences on the

 Yeah, some. Some what?

interaction? Yeah.

 Yeah. Means let's say if someone
is sitting next to me, I can say something. Maybe slowly or that that the
person who is there in the online will not be able to hear.
So let's say if you want to bring up any thought which
should go to everyone, then like you should say it loudly. Like
how how in the normal virtual meeting everyone will like
either raise a hand and then say so it should be like audible to
all of the participants who are in the meeting room as well as
who are join joining from remote location. Yeah.

OK. And like in your experience
to remote participants contribute as much as those who
are on on site?

 Yeah, like it's just like they
are saying from the remote location they are saying from
the online, but once they're done comes for the updates and
all. So like yeah, they will, they will say, yeah.

OK, like how then how do you
perceive the contribution of remote participants in
comparison to those who are on site? (...)

 I think there will be little
with gap will be there like who are in the onsite. Let's say if
the call call is over after that also that people will be in
room. So maybe they can discuss some 2-3 new points or while
ending like that that that the people who are joining from
remote location will have no idea on that. So if if you want
to say anything or that should be like known by all the people
then in the call only they should say and once the call is
over then. Like they should not discuss the
things which should be known by all the people, so they that
should come on the meeting itself.

OK. So my next question would be,
have you observed any biases? About remote or onsite
participants, is there any bias? For example, on site
participants may have a bias against remote participants and
remote participants may have a bias or like a view about about. Onsite participants.

 No, I I haven't seen that bias.
Yeah, I think it's equal only.

OK, OK. OK. And have you, do you
have the feeling that some groups are formed during the
onset collaboration? And if so, what could be the reasons of
this?

 I think not kind of groups but.

Social groups.

 I let's say once, once the
meeting is started and. Till the all the people comes up
and all the people join still, then they will have some chit
chatting like just like, what did you do on weekend? What was
it yesterday and that's are

Mm hmm.

 normal things. So I do not feel
it will impact anything on the work side. But I think it's OK.

OK. OK. So like, OK, so, so if
there is a social reformation, you feel that it will not impact
anything on the work side. So it will, but how will it influence
the overall success of the team? That is my question. (...)

 Means on the work side I I do
not think anything will be it will be impacted.

OK. OK, it's fine. OK, moving on to
the next question, what kinds of tools have you used to
facilitate the communication or collaboration in dehydrated
meetings? So when you are an onsite participant or when you
are a remote participant, So what kinds of tools did you use
to enhance the collaboration with the other people?

 So the people who joining from
the on site in from the meeting room, so external mic should be
there, a big screen should be there and the scrum master
should share the screen and that

Uh huh.

 should be visible by all the
people sitting in the meeting room. And obviously the online
participants who joining from the remote locations.

OK, OK.

 Apart from there, I think
nothing else because some people will be joining from the remote
site, so I think camera if if if external camera is there which
will have the view of the whole meeting room then it will be a
good like everyone from the online can see OK who all are in
the meeting room and like what is going on there and. Apart from that, I think
whatever will be shared on the screen only from the laptop
only. So the share option in the teams that will be useful.

OK. And how well do these tools
integrate into the meeting environment? (...)

 The MIC can be on the centre of
the table. And. Just one laptop will be
connected with HDMI to the second screen and the external
camera. I think if if it is there then it should be on top
of the second screen like the big monitor in the meeting room
so that it can capture all the seats.

OK. How does the experience of
participating virtually compared to being physically present in
the meeting? (...)

 I think OK only. No more difference. Yeah, you
will miss something. I think that will be some chit chatting
that you will miss. Which is like happening after
the. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah,

OK, socialising you mean?

 that that will be missed. Yeah.

OK. And there are there any
challenges that you have encountered in the hybrid
meetings and how have they affected your experience?

 Oh yeah, I I encountered with
some challenges is that the sometimes. Let's say that Mike
will not work, so some people like only let's say the external
mic is not working or external mic is not there in that meeting
room. Then in that case the laptop Mic will be used. So in
laptop Mic I think let's say some the the person who is
sitting next to the laptop, that voice will be clear but the
person who is far from the laptop that voice. I will not be able to hear
clearly if I am joining from the remote so so I think that. Should we fix? They should have
a external working mic, yeah?

OK, OK. OK, OK. So. Like I I I I see that these are
your suggestions for enhancing the hybrid meeting experience.
Are there any more suggestions?

 I think that's all. Nothing
else, yeah.

OK. And lastly, which form of
meeting do you find suitable on site hybrid or completely
remote? (...)

 I I cannot say like anyone
meeting I I would like to. Join all the meetings like some
some meetings online, some meetings hybrid, some meeting on
site, so it should be mix of all

Uh.

 the meetings so that way you
will get all the experience.

OK. OK. OK. Then that's it. I'll
just stop the recording now, first of all. 