OK. I guess the recording has
been started. (...) Yeah. So my my first question
would be how how often do you or have you participated in the
hybrid meetings and what is your usual role during the sessions?

 Uh hybrid meetings. Very rare.

Uh huh.

 Maybe once or twice when the
team and our team is in office, part of the team in working from
office, part of the previous

Uh huh.

 working from. Home Office. So very in spite of
that being in office, we were joining in most of the times in.
We are also being online in the teams rather than attending
together in the room maybe once or twice. That's it. Nothing
much.

OK. And how do you prepare for
hybrid meetings and how does that differ from your
preparation for other types of meetings?

 The preparation in the sense if
I'm if if I should speak something, if I should present
something for me, I think not much difference, but yeah, it's
it'll be a little. More effective in case if I am
presenting and I'm preparing for myself to present something
there in the meetings then. Sitting next to me in the hybrid
mode, which will be very effective, I feel rather than. People attending more from the. Outsour of the premise. Maybe
online. Yeah. So where I mean,

OK.

 preparation will be nothing much
difference. It will be same but I will be keeping more little
effective than the being everybody is online. Yeah.

What? How can you describe the
general atmosphere and flow of a typical hybrid meeting which you
attend?

 Low in the sense couldn't
understand. I mean, what exactly you're expecting?

Yeah, general atmosphere, I
mean, is it light? Is it stressful or? Yeah, and flow
means like, how, what, what does happen in the meeting like
generally what what do you discuss? I mean, not the
technical details but like you can go through brief. Explanation.

 Even how it goes if if.

Yeah, how it goes.

 Nothing much difference. But
whereas at least for example, if you are attending office. For recently we had a one
grooming meeting we were attending together from a room.
So where something was being discussed, at least in a meeting
room, at least there will be a white board and marker and
something. We would get to discuss
something. I mean put something on the board or something maybe. Later, can we discuss or
something? But if it is in that will be little advantage. I feel
if you are even though partially

OK.

 teammates outside the other part
of the team is joining remotely. But if we are in office and
attending from a a conference room where we'll be having a
good logistics and all. And with the whiteboard markers
and all where I think we can make something sketches or
diagram which will be useful for later discussion or maybe within
the meeting also something is. Required. I think it will be
useful to discuss, whereas in. Everything is in live then. It
is little difficult to explain or talk about something like
that.

OK, OK. So coming to the next
question, have you noticed any differences in how remote and on
site participants interact during the meetings?

 Yeah, sometimes. Yeah. It's
general tendency not to comment on any general tendency people
who is working from office or something. Maybe they'll,
they're free to move here and there due to anything or though
meeting is going on and mute themselves and move around such
kind of behaviours we would see. But whereas in people who are
sitting in the room kind of little focused.

Yeah.

 Yeah. Right. So because people
are there, people are around and that you'll feel a kind of any
any discuss are going on. Do you feel that group discussion kind
of things environment if you are sitting there people who are
sitting remotely they may be

Yeah.

 feeling. Come little isolated and if they
want to discuss also it'll mean not that effective.

Mm hmm. OK. In your experience, do remote
participants contribute as much as those who are on site?

 Yeah. Yeah, it is. It is. I
mean, there are, it will be contribution will be there again
depends on the situations. Remote participants where they
are in like some people may takes the call from driving or
some people may take call somewhere maybe. I will go somewhere. So in such
kind of examples also I had in the past where it will be
disturbance and may not be able to explain or in that kind of
situations if somebody want to share the disclope on
demonstrate by sharing the desktop is also not possible.
Somebody is taking the call remotely but travelling in in
while while in travel or something. So that's how
something I remote participants involvement that is there. But
when these kind of things are happening it will be not that
active participation I could see.

OK, OK. How do you perceive the
contribution of remote participants in comparison to
those who are on site?

 English but. Sometimes a remote participants
participation was more effective than the ones who are joining
there because. It's not that remote is
something not effective or something, but in times, but
there are cases where remote participants were more active
and speaking something and actively participating in the
discussions. And for example, if we take grooming right. So there
are remote participants are participating. Interbotting and adding the
content to the topic, whereas sometimes this also will happen
where some people being in the meeting room but looking at some
other part of their laptop so something is already presented.
I mean for example if you are in a meeting so we normally connect
our laptops to the screen through the projector and so
that everybody can look into it. But maybe the chance is only one
person can read it to the screen and many people also will join
with their laptops. But in such kind of situations
where participate, active participation from the room
itself will be sometimes less than the remote participant. I
mean either of the cases are

OK.

 then both kinds of cases are
there.

OK, OK. Have you observed any
biases or common views about remote or onsite participants?
Like do remote participant have a bias about on site and do on
site participants have a bias about remote participants? Like
is there anything which you find which is present? (...)

 I did not face any such bias,
but yeah, I mean the participation is participation
in respect to how they're participating. I didn't
experience any bias till now, yeah.

OK, OK. And do you have the
feeling that some groups are formed during the onset
collaboration? On site collaboration.

 You are an onsite and uh I'm
attending remotely.

No, no. People who are people
who are on site, do they form like social groups during the
meetings? (...)

 Not much. I I did not. Feel any such experience? But
only thing is in the onset some any let's say some technical
discussions are happening where sometimes. Fill that. It is. It would be better if,
geographically, if the teams are located in different
geographical locations. Any discussions are happening, it
would be better to collect everybody onto one team meeting
and then discuss would be better. Yeah, sometimes I had
some. Instances where. Though geographically located in
different locations but but working for the same product
and. Due to different reasons within
their locations, they will be having some technical
discussions before coming for the meeting and when they'll
come for the meeting. What will happen is something they'll
people start talking like they are aware of the things already. When the other other side of the
team, something they build

OK.

 something, yeah. Or is there
something new because they have,

Uh huh.

 they might have already
discussed in their subgroup in in in one geographical location.
What's it doing in the other geographical location may not
have a chance to join with them. Yeah. In such kind of situations
maybe I little. I felt that some some knowledge gaps. So of
course yeah out of our out of

OK.

 other other side of people's
personal interests. Yeah they can go and get to know more
details. Yeah, that is that is always
there. But yeah, during the discussion, some sometimes I put
in that, yeah, they had already some prior discussion before
coming to the meeting together on the topic. So they are. Uh, they're already some things
are already aware, so this meeting was. More helpful because they
already had a prior discussion, so it is not that difficult for
them to understand the concept or something. Yeah, exactly.

According to you, according to
you, what could be the reasons of these kinds of group
formations?

 There's no group formation. This
is not exactly a group formation, but I just to give an
example. This is may not be a group
formation, but yeah, prior they might have had a discussion,
maybe due to any reason I don't know. Which helped them better than
the other other side of the geography location to understand
the concept. For example grooming itself if they had
already had some technical discussion before coming to the
grooming. So the grooming will be very much effective for them
than the other location guys. So

OK.

 that is what I was telling. But
that is the intentional groupism or grouping something. But yeah,
this experience I had in the past.

OK and. Do you? OK. And how do you think
like these dynamics which you just explained? Affect the overall success of
the team.

 Uh, I would say this is this is
not impact much, but yeah, because we have again the scope
to recall for a discussion and to fill the knowledge gaps,
we'll not affect much, but the

Mm hmm.

 only thing is maybe in that
particular discussion, they may not understand maybe later we
have again a scope again chance to call for a discussion or
understand, but in fact wise for the product, I don't think it'll
impact much. But yeah, sometimes if people may miss some points. That could be some technical
points they may miss if if the discussions are not a common
common forums separate forums then it will be little knowledge
gap will be there. But though followed the other meetings,
they can collect the information, but sometimes there
will be some small knowledge gap of course will be there I feel.

OK. And what kinds of tools are
used to facilitate the communication or collaboration
in the hybrid meetings? Like what kinds of tools do you use?

 Oh, in the past I was using. I
mean, uh, maybe. Uh, I was, uh, uh here I saw three different
types of uh communication tools. One is we used to have initially
a long ago called Office Communicator.

Uh huh.

 OK. And later. We started using slack, OK, when
I was talking, we were using

Yeah, yeah.

 slacks and after slack when
Microsoft Teams it is rolled out

Yeah.

 publicly and then we moved to
Microsoft Teams, yeah.

Mm hmm. OK and.

 These are two.

Do you do you? Do you find these
tools effective?

 Yeah, more than communicate a
slack and this, teams. Want more? Effective? Maybe from
the context of integrating with,

OK.

 I mean teams is more effective
directly have an integration with the outlook and office
tools and all with again, not only that, even with a your
DevOps where we were having the our work later stuff also can be
hooked into that community. Even Slack also is there, but because
we are towards Microsoft Technologies and Microsoft
within as you know within Microsoft tools the integration
will be better than non Microsoft non Microsoft.

Yeah.

 Microsoft non Microsoft yeah.

Uh, huh. So you feel that the
integration is better?

 Better. Yeah, maybe if you
Outlook integration could be or

Yeah.

 Azure DevOps for work items
related could be or some notification could be some
workflows could be our majority of the time with all the
Microsoft Redis stuff, yeah.

OK. And how does the experience
of participating virtually compared to being physically
present in the meeting?

 But two two types of experience
remote people were more effective than the physical hand
physical. Physically participating people
are more effective than the virtual I had either of the
experience both of the experience I had. It depends on
the situation depends on the topic that we are talking about
depends on the the topic that we are discussing in the meeting or
depends on the situation where they are in. As I told you,
somebody's travelling and taking the call in the car. Yeah
depends I mean but I had both

Yep.

 kinds of experiences sometimes. The physically participating in
the from a rumour more effective. Sometimes these guys
are less effective than the guys who are remotely remotely
joining.

Mm hmm. OK.

 Yeah, both experience, yeah.

So yeah, coming to the next
question, what challenges have you encountered in hybrid
meetings and how, how had, how have they affected your
experience?

 Yeah, one drawback I've I'm
facing even till now. Also somebody is joining a technical
for example in a design discussion I'm having Bing Bing
in my role of an architect. If I want to discuss any technical
design with the team. If the design is already done,
I'll explain that is not a big deal. I'll make a PPT or
something, I'll do it. But if I want to discuss the with the
team and the discussions, outcome is a design. Solution. In such kind of situations, what
will happen I am I want to discuss with the team. I am
there in the office with me. Couple of participants are there
in the room. I'll try to use whiteboard and marker and I'll
try to derive a solution for technical problem. But the
people who are sitting remotely. In such kind of situations, I
feel little uncomfortable where the discussions are not that
fruitful or that not effective because the people are
physically there. It is. I could see that I could see more
involvement. I could see more attention and
not only that, the face to face meetings are always a kind of
effective where you you can. I mean that you can connect with
the people. I mean, if you're not physically looking at the
person, the main whenever you

Mm hmm.

 are any kind of discussions or
any kind of meeting what is important is you should you
should connect it. You should you should connect with the
person who is listening to you so otherwise the discussion is
not that effective. So you are how are the connecting with the
person in the sense grabbing the attention of the person and
grabbing the focus of the person into the discussion that can be
done if it is physically. Virtually, sometimes it is
difficult to get it, or some, sometimes it may not be possible
or it's impossible sometimes may not be possible.

Yeah, yeah.

 Which are not impossible. So
yeah, I mean I feel. Such kind of being in my role. Being in my situation, whenever
I'm discussing, I was discussing in the rooms and all. So where
I'm lacking that effectiveness of effective participation from
the. Participants who are attending
remotely, I mean the the complete involvement, complete
attention, grabbing their attention and connecting with
them. I mean normally in the technical people when in the
presentation technology, we call it as a connecting with the
people. So grabbing the attention of the
people is little difficult. That's what my experience.

Mm hmm. What are your
suggestions for enhancing the hybrid meeting experience? (...)

 Meetings on all on a status
update, kind of meetings or any any any. Demonstration of the product
kind of meetings makes sense, but it is something in a
technical discussion or it is any kind of grooming discussion
or any kind of any kind of technical, I mean technical
meeting, it will come, it will cover everything in such kind of
things it will be better to. Have physically rather than
hybrid. If everybody is there along with the entire team, will
be more effective, at least weekly toys are price. If if
everybody attends the meeting. From together, maybe in a room
that will be more effective than. Joining the meetings like Hybrid
mode, everybody should attend together in one meeting room
would be more effective at least weekly, twice or twice maybe
remaining days. Yeah, let them join those meetings. Also in
those kind of two days also, what kind of mission meetings we
can have just presentations or status updates, these kind of
meetings where? Kind of where you need not to. Completely. Full full involve it is
required, but at least the technical discussions or other
meetings should have at least physically in the office. So that it will be more
effective.

OK. And like coming to the last
question, like you said, now which form of meeting do you
find more suitable on site hybrid or completely remote?

 On site will be more suitable
for some meetings. Where here I mean now in this
era, we are heading towards a hybrid and work from home mode.
Physical is more or less right onset kind of thing is becoming
less to these days. But in

Yeah.

 technical world I would say it
would be better to at least meet. At least half two to three days
in a week, so that. Only for those kind of technical
where where we are lacking the interaction with the teams for
technical sessions, for those kind of meetings, at least meet
personally in office on site and remaining other where other rest
of the meetings could be rest of the discussions could be either
hybrid or completely or remote yet.

OK. OK. So yeah, I that's it. I
will stop the recording now. 