

 OK. So yeah, we will, we'll start.
So my first question is that. How do you often participate in
hybrid meetings and when you participate? What is your role
during these sessions?

 Yeah, like. I don't participate the dead
often on the on the hybrid meetings like we have for for
for example, we have. It's not hyper meeting or
sometimes we have like a team session here on our side and we
are we are with a few guys and usually some manager on our side
and the other guys are like on the other locations within
Slovakia.

 Uh huh.

 And. Yeah, like. It's not that often it happens,
maybe I don't know. 4 * a year or something like
that.

 K and and in this sessions are
your contributor. Or are you a listener or do you have any
another role? (...)

 No, usually it is that we
discuss some some of things related to the project like
where, where is it going, where we are and there like it's there
is a required input for from like all team members. So it's
more like contributor.

 OK. OK. And when you go into these
meetings, how do you prepare for these meetings and? Does it have any difference when
you prefer when you prepare for like? Completely onsite or completely
remote? Completely remote meetings? Yeah. So is there any
difference when you prepare for the hybrid meetings?

 From I said that usually there
wasn't much of the preparation for my side because like it was
a discussion on on the topics that like we work with every day
and I I wasn't the one that was like leading the the meeting. I
was just contributing within it. So it it didn't require that
much of the measure of preparation. But I think that
preparation is mostly the same for for these two types of of
meetings because you need to prepare like. If you know in the front like
what was, what is going to be discussed, then I think you need
to prepare similarly for those two types of meetings.

 OK. And when you attend these
meetings, can you describe the general atmosphere and how does
the meeting? Go on like the flow of the
meeting. Like what did you do first? And then what did you do?
Do you do first? So that kind of thing? Like in in a very short, in a
very brief way.

 Yeah, like it's I. I think it's
a more more like. Friendly or open atmosphere and
it's when it's like that VR on on the same place they are like
live or you know in some in some meeting room and we are
communicating with someone that is like on the other side like. I feel that like it's easier to
communicate with the guys that are there. That part is like, is it to
communicate, and sometimes the guys that are on the other side
of of the like of the call like they are connected to us through
teams in the hybrid meetings they they can sometimes like
disconnect. But I think that like these meetings can bring
the teams more together or so.

 OK. OK, that brings to mind
another question. Have you noticed any differences
in how remote and onsite participants interact during the
meetings?

 Yeah, like it's Israel that
blows the outside more, more active, more proactive than the
the guys that are on the like, they are remotely connected.

 OK.

 Those some, those sometimes I
feel like they are doing some other things at the same time
and like sometimes it happens that they don't listen or
because like. This may happen that the they
just disconnect from the discussion because they are not
directly there.

 OK, OK. And in your experience,
do you do remote participants contribute as much as those who
are on site?

 Well, it slightly depends on the
on the participant, but. I think that usually those that
are on site contribute more than the remote ones.

 OK, OK. And how do you feel
about it if if remote participants don't contribute
that much? Is it OK with you?

 Oh. Well, it depends on the topic
that is being discussed. Like I understand when like Dave wants
to work on some task and basically the current topic is
not anything interesting to them that they like somehow
disconnect from the discussion. So, but like it's it's always
good that like everyone is at least possibly part of the
discussion that they don't like do other things.

 OK. And have you observed any
biases or any common views about remote or onsite participants
like do you have any views about them when you attend the
meetings?

 What do you mean about the
views?

 Like perceptions. For example. The the remote the the the on
site contribution is more than the remote contribution. So do
you have any perceptions about the individuals who are
participating in remotely? When you are on site.

 Yeah. Oh, like it's always
better when they have their count. The the camera on. So
then, like, then there is a perception that like they are
part of the part of the meeting, but sometimes they don't. They
don't turn on the camera. You

 Oh yeah.

 you basically don't actually
know what's going on with them.

 Mm hmm mm hmm. Mm hmm, mm hmm. Do you have the
feeling that some groups are formed during the onset
collaboration? And if so, what can be the reasons for this?

 Yeah, definitely. Like with the
onset collaboration, it's like you're just not not meet only
like. During the meeting itself, but
like you have coffee breaks, usually that do you go in into
into the kitchen and then like you talk about like some? Some other other topics, but
like it makes the participants somehow closer. I think from my
point of view.

 Uh, huh. Uh huh. OK. So do you
think that?

 Yeah. (...)

 When the participants are on
site, so there may be some visual queues or some another
queues which participants in on on site can give to each other
and the collaboration experience may enhance or may may differ
from as compared to the remote participants.

 Oh yeah, it may happen. Like
from my point of view, it's like like this. Hybrid meetings are good, but
sometimes it's good to meet in person in person because like
it's slightly different dynamics.

 OK. And how do you think these
dynamics influence the overall success of the team? (...)

 These dynamics may like make
something like feeling about the your teammates and make can make
like team work easier. I I would say because we like, collaborate
more closely that way. It's not that like each one is
doing its own thing on its own playground, but like it's like
more interactive.

 M. (...) OK, so another another section
is about the tools which we use in the hybrid meetings. So do
you use any tools to enhance the communication or collaboration
in the hybrid meetings, tools can be anything for example? Abode when you are on on site or
note taking or for example microphone anything, tools can
be anything.

 Yeah, like usually there is like
in the meeting rooms there is a camera that basically even
follows the one that that is talking there is microphone
there for the whole conference

 Mm hmm.

 room.

 OK.

 We we usually use also like on
place boards or like this paperboard that we write some
some some I don't know some some topics there and yeah sometimes
like that there is also camera on the board the guys that are
remotely can see through the camera without our our notes and
what are you thinking about. Sometimes we use the what what
it's called. (...) That this is also within our
team when we have the I'm not sure.

 Concept board.

 But yeah, I can support. Yeah,
sometimes used to that and to

 Yeah.

 otherwise sometimes only teams
and camera.

 OK, OK. Are these tools which we use? Do
they integrate well with the meeting environment?

 Yeah, I think I think console
word is good. With the life and there is more
people on on side than the ones that are connected to, then
there's sometimes also good, like when it's just written on
the, on the, on the board. And like you can point camera on the
board and it's kind of similar you can you can discuss the
points on the board. Yeah. But I think they help.

 And. How does the experience of
participating virtually compare to being physically present in
the meeting? (...)

 Yeah, like I've I feel sometimes
is easier to focus when you are directly in the place with the
people. Then it's. I mean, it's like, oh. Virtually through the like teams
or something.

 Are there any challenges that
you have encountered in rehabilitating and have they
affected your experience?

 Of. None that I can think of, I
think.

 OK. Which form of meeting do you
find suitable on site, hybrid or completely remote?

 Oh, it depends on the frequency.
Like I like the onsite meeting when there happen like at least
I I don't know. A few times a month maybe. Or or every every
few months. But like for every meeting to meet life it would
like they take a lot of time. So it it it depends on the
frequency and what is the what is the point of the meeting.

 OK. Do you have any suggestions for
enhancing the hybrid meeting experience? (...)

 So I don't know. Maybe to use some some more
utilities that are on the web that like it's that would help
like people collaborate between the remote and like on site
ones, but I can't think of any right now.

 OK. That OK, that's OK. Would you like to share any
additional thoughts or experience regarding the hybrid
meetings?

 Hmm. Uh, I don't. I don't think
so.


 OK.

 Yeah, I'll just stop the
recording first. I would I would like to. 