

 So the recording has been
started automatically. Umm. Yeah, the recording has been
started. So can we go ahead?

 Yes, you can go.

 OK, so I will just go ahead with
the first question, ohm. So my my first question would be
how often do you or have you participated in the hybrid
meetings and what is your usual rule in this sessions? Like, are you a contributor? Are you listener? Are you like, do you have any
another role? Uh, could you please clarify
clarify about it? (...) Hello. Uh, I cannot, yeah.

 Yeah. Sorry, I was on mute, so I'll so
I have participated in multiple hybrid meetings, which are
usually, you know, our daily standups and it will be a short
session like but it is not like not in the right current project
but in previous projects I used to have daily standups in that
way. So yeah, as my role will be
there as a contributor, both the I I sometimes I may have to you
know, do the scrum master role like I conduct the session
sometimes and also sometimes I do participate as a I know like
a normal person and giving an update what does a daily update
on that. So yeah. Ohh, I'd bought the questions
answer.

 OK. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Ohh, another question is about
the preparation.

 Yeah.

 How do you prepare for these
kinds of meetings? That means hybrid meetings. And how does your preparation
differ differ from the preparation of of another types
of meetings? (...)

 Umm, it doesn't differ much.

 Is there any? Is there any special? Is there any special thing which
you do when when when you go into the hybrid meetings like
special preparation as compared to the completely remote or
completely in person meetings?

 No and no. It doesn't differ much for me.

 Hope. OK, so it's the same
preparation, right?

 Yeah.

 OK, OK. So the meetings which you
attend, can you describe the general atmosphere and flow of,
uh, a typical hybrid meeting? (...)

 As in, as like a normal
attendant or like a person who hosts the meeting.

 Yeah, both both both is OK, but
a please don't diverge the technical details. Ohh we I I would just want to
know what is the general

 OK.

 atmosphere and flow, yeah.

 Yeah, sure.

 Uh.

 So so I feel it is a, you know,
people will be there with me discussing, you know, in case if
there are any. Ohh topics to be dwelled in
detail like then and there we just tell the person who is in
the same discussion room. Just take the task and work on
it later. But in case of you know non
hybrid meetings, it may be that the person may not. Would have missed it to hear the
update. If in case you know he's online
and not near us, so it will be easy to communicate. If it's a person who is, you
know, with us in the same standing room and the chance of
missing and update is less. Also, apart from that, I will
say a face to face discussion is always a a. You know, it gives more
information on how you know the other person views the task,
especially the priority of the items. So in case if the priority needs
to be discuss, sometimes the you can see from you know if it's a,
if it's conveyed over the call like sometimes it's a discretely
conveyed like it will not be open sometimes and sometimes you
can see from the face of the other person also you what is a
priority and he you will be able to understand in more in case if
it's a face to face discussion and if the person is near you
yeah. That's what I feel.

 OK, OK. And the atmosphere is it. Is it relaxed? Is it like tensed? What? What does the atmosphere when
you go into these kinds of meetings generally?

 Umm. Maybe it differs, so sometimes
if the work pressure is more than little bit tensed,
everybody will be feeling

 Umm.

 tensed.

 OK.

 And if it's not that much a
normal day, then it's it's tough one and nothing much to update. So if you ask me, when compared
to hybrid and non hybrid meetings.

 Mm-hmm.

 Hybrid meetings will be having
some emotion in it, but not every meetings will be dull like
nobody's near you, and now you will not be feeling that you
know. No, the I feel some spark will
be missing in you to give an

 Umm yeah.

 update as well. So it will be done when compared
to non hybrid meetings like yeah. But hybrid meetings are good. That's what I will say.

 OK. OK. As you as you mentioned that the
the the the atmosphere becomes dull and I have been meeting so
uh coming coming in.

 Darling non hybrid and non
hybrid it becomes.

 OK, in non hybrid. OK. OK, OK. Anyway, coming to the next
question is, have you noticed any differences in how remote
and onsite participants interact during the hybrid meetings?

 Yes, I have been part of
discussion, so yeah. Yes, I have been. I notice I have observed them,
yes.

 Hmm. So is there any differences on
on how the participants interact during these meetings for
example? You are sitting with someone in
a room and you are attending a meeting and some other
participants have joined remote. So do you feel there is an
interaction difference between the two people who are in the
same room and people who are joining from remote location? Is there any differences?

 OK, so it differs on point of
view. So for the person who is, let's
say from my point of view, if I see the person, unless if there
is a discussion with needed with the other persons in the same
room it is, it is more, more or less the same as one to one
meeting with the remote participant and another
participant like both of them will be remote. But in case if the discussion is
needed with the other members in

 Mm-hmm.

 the room, yes, then it will be
like, OK, so some more attention will be there to the topic the
other person has discussing.

 OK.

 So if it's not the if, the
entire, uh, the other members in the room are not involved, it's
more or less the same as a non hybrid meeting, unless there's
activity or involvement it it

 OK.

 it, it goes towards a non hybrid
meeting.

 OK, OK. So in your experience, do remote
participants contribute as much as those who are on site? And if there is a difference,
then how do you perceive the contribution of remote
participants in comparison to those who are on site?

 UM, that when it's what do you
mean by contribution? Like highlight an example maybe.

 So contribution meaning, but if
you are in a room with, with with another person, like in a
hybrid meeting, then there may be may be a possibility that you
guys would be contributing more into the meeting as compared to
the remote participant. So that's what I'm talking
about. Like, do you feel a difference
between the contribution of the people when you are in the
hybrid meeting as compared to like those who are on like, do
remote participants contribute

 Anymore.

 as much as those who are on site
or they do not?

 I yeah, I see. It depends on. It depends on the work. So as long as yeah, in a
meeting, there can be multiple remote participants. So if if the work that the point
that we are discussing work item

 Mm-hmm. (...)

 if it's not related, mostly the
remote participants will other who are not related to that
discussion will remain silent. And so the same also in if in
the other side also in case of

 OK. (...)

 the room inside the room if the
work item. As I said, if it's not related
to the entire team or like if it doesn't involve more than one
particular, I mean more than a person. It looks similar. Both the you know the non hybrid
and hybrid. So the contribution depends on
the work that is being discussed. So I will say if, if in case of
a grooming session where an entire team is involved, yes,
the contribution in the remote side will be less and the
contribution in. In a, you know the hybrid, the
other session, the other the other side of the room where,
like many members are together. So there, if it's a grooming
like it depends on situation to situation. So on in case of grooming, it
will be more on on the remote. No, I mean on the hybrid people
earlier together, but in if it's not a grooming, let's say if
it's just a daily stand up there

 Mm-hmm.

 it it can be the contribution
can be same, it need not be

 OK, OK.

 always it will not need not be
always that the contribution from remote side will be less
than you know the other it can be it can be same also like in
case where the activity is not in like not much of an activity
happening.

 OK. Have you observed any biases
about remote or on site participants? Like, are there any bias if if
people join like remotely or if people join on site? Is there any bias within the
team or like if you think personally, do you think that
there is a bias of how the other participants feel about each
other? If they are joining remote or
they are joining on site for example on site guys may have a
bias that these these this guy always joins remotely doesn't
come to office or he doesn't sits with us or on on the same
location. So. So do you think that there is a
bias when comes when like when it's come to comes to these
kinds of meetings?

 Again, that also the bias will
vary depending on the discussion time. In case of grooming, yes, there
will be bias that we can see because the person who wants to
give us a Sean would have prepared a lot. And if the others do not
participate, yes, the there is a possible strong possibility that
in bias can happen where activity is, you know, a big
activities planned and if people are not available, you know and
also not part contributing much which will be like in case of a
grooming session.

 Uh-huh.

 Yes, but apart from that, if
it's like a like a fun activity where it's not mandatory to be
in a hybrid meeting. So yeah, there the bias. I don't see anything. It's negligible.

 OK, OK. And do you have the feeling that
some groups are formed during the onsite collaboration?

 Come again can make it little
easy to understand.

 Do do you? Do you have a feeling that some
social groups are formed during the on site collaboration?

 What? What do you mean by onsite
collaboration?

 Like if you if you guys are
sitting together, so do you think that by sitting together
you will form a social group because you are collaborating in
the same environment? So. So if do you think that a social
group is formed when when there is onset collaboration? (...)

 Hmm, I still did not. Are you? Is that the question? Like is it a yes or no question
or a good or bad question?

 No, no, no, no, no, no, it's
it's, it's you. It's not a yes or you yes or no
question. If you feel that the the groups
are formed, then you can just tell the reasons in your
opinion.

 Yeah. And then so in case of hybrid
meetings, yes, usually by nature, the social interactions,
it come in a group. So it happens by default, so
unless the person is like, doesn't want involved in the
hybrid meeting. Yeah.

 Umm.

 So by default groups will be
formed and that is good and I

 OK.

 think that will promote work if
groups are found and yeah.

 OK, so so you think that if if
groups are formed then it will influence the overall success of
the team?

 Yeah. Yeah. So and also there should be the
like the groups also should

 OK.

 communicate between each other,
so otherwise there should be a I mean some intercommunication
between the groups should also be in there otherwise then the
information flow will not be

 So OK.

 there. There's no point in working as a
group, and if you don't share it with other group, so groups are
good.

 OK. Umm.

 But if not, you know you know
not working in the right way and then it is not going to help.

 OK, So what? What can we what can be the
reasons of the these kind of group formation? May is it the? Is it the complete
collaboration? Is it like you? Is it like a cultural thing? Is it like a linguistic thing? So yeah, what could be the
reasons for this?

 I know the when I meant group
formation, not on cultural or something. Based on that at least, I do not
see any groups, at least in

 Hmm hmm. (...)

 during work based on culture or
all the linguistics which is and it is basically A-Team who works
together, who sits near by by location. You know where they sit and
where they participate. He the group gets formed so it
it it it I I will say it as a team, not as a not as like a
discrimination on some gender or

 OK. (...) Mm-hmm.

 culture. It's just a work team and it it
gets formed naturally when

 Uh-huh.

 people come together to work.

 OK.

 We I don't think it can be
better.

 OK. And you find it good, right?

 Yes, I find that good.

 OK, OK.

 And yes, it is good, but also it
the communication between groups should exist, if otherwise the
information remains in one group

 Hmm.

 and not communicated to the
other, then it is not a good

 Yes.

 thing because in a group when
you come together you you get

 Yes.

 more information inside the
group you can share. So one person can share to the
other person in the group.

 Umm hmm.

 But if the same information
needs to be there for another group, it needs to be shared. If it's not shared, then as a
team, in case in a team, if we form groups then. If one group does better and the
other group doesn't do well, then it's a not a good
communication. We need to establish a
communication.

 OK. OK. OK, OK.

 Groups are good.

 So coming to the umm yeah.

 Yeah, groups are.

 Yeah.

 I mean the way in a way, small
point where I have to say groups

 Just go ahead. Yeah.

 are good and groups also need to
be having intercommunication.

 OK. OK. Understood. Ohm. Thanks. Thanks for the thanks for that
insight coming to the next question. So what kinds of tools do you
use to facilitate the communication or collaboration
in hybrid meetings and tools can be anything. It can be like double screens. It can be microphone, it can be
anything. Ohh and do you find them
effective? And yeah, and how how well do
this tool integrate into the meeting environment?

 OK, some people feel that
turning on the video Cam and having face to face even though
they are sitting for it helps in some way a minute helps the
person to communicate better. But I I feel that, uh, I feel
that it's a OK. In my opinion, and it's just the
person's confidence. So if the person is confident to
talk, he doesn't need to switch on a Cam and do that. I mean, if in some people it it
works differently, I feel. So for me it is fine there. I switch on the Cam or switch
off the Cam. I talk freely and I also don't
expect the others also to switch it on or switch it off. Some people call it privacy, and
yeah, I respect that as well. But ideally devices at the end
you know it helps when when it

 Mm-hmm. (...)

 comes to, you know, arguments. So when one person tells her
point and the other person doesn't understand and you know
tries to. Tries to come up with a
different point and there's like we need to establish a mutual
agreement between those two. I mean those two parties, so
that is where we can say these tools will be more helpful, for
example, opening a sharing a video session with the you know
screen shared and where you draw diagrams and explain it clearly
where words just sharing words

 Yeah.

 and you know facial talking face
to face will not help at least in at least in a in a technical
discussions any technical

 Mm-hmm. (...)

 discussions sometimes the words
are not enough, you need diagrams you need uh you know
screens to be shared to see the code I need to share the code so
yeah. Just doing face to face
interaction is just for, you know, maybe bushing. The confidence of the person. But when it comes to an
argument, it will not help when it comes to an argument. You need to do more than that. Ohh yeah, like chatting screen
and sharing diagrams and yeah

 OK.

 some of the tools I will say is
like can mention tool names. Is it fine?

 Yeah, yeah, you can mention it. Listening tool name, yeah.

 So there are tools like you
know, in case, at least in our technical discussions, we use
plant UML there, which I think recently in our team we were
having a session by one team colleagues. So we did it online over a call. We draw some diagrams. Technical diagrams.

 Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.

 So it was actually so, you know
it can we still made better, you know, in that context when the
more than one person can use the same, you know tool at the same
time. So yeah, so you we can actually
in case of plant UML it's just a

 At the same time, OK. To.

 text file. Ohh.

 OK.

 In the text file can be edited
by multiple persons if it is

 Hmm.

 shared. Or let's say in a Google Drive
or some cloud sharing and if

 Yeah, yeah.

 multiple persons can edit at the
same time.

 People can access it and work
it, work on it at the same time.

 Yeah, yes.

 Yeah, yeah.

 So it will be, you know, it's
like a good tool to share, like ideas. And one one more tool I will say
is this. I think we have the Siemens Draw
Concept Board drawing, so they're also I think it's a
similar concept where multiple people can operate and share
their ideas.

 Yeah, yeah, yeah.

 So that's a good example.

 Yeah.

 And apart from that. Apart from that, it will be
better to have a a projector as well sometimes if the. You know, I think projector
instead of projector, I think we have monitors, big monitors. So yeah, that also helps in in
in case if multiple people have to see it in a big screen. Yeah. So big monitors should be also
really helpful for discussions, yeah.

 OK, OK. So another question is virtual
versus physical or on site? How does the experience of
participating virtually compare to being physically present in
the meeting?

 The thing is a similar question
that remote to ask US hybrid.

 Uh-huh.

 So I I feel the same in here as
well. Like if physically OK in when
you meant physically do you mean I am one of the part?

 On site.

 And I will be my experience as
an on site and my experience as

 As a remote participant, yeah.

 a virtual remote participant. OK, so in my experience I will
say it, uh. Sometimes when it comes to
discussing in detail, I feel that on site discussions are
better, and if it doesn't need a detailed discussion and yes, so
I will feel that. Umm, you know you need some
preparations to be in case if we want to do a virtual meeting and
you need to do in detail let's

 Umm.

 say in detailed discussion. So that needs some beforehand
preparation and and you know it takes some time. But in case if the I mean it may
happen that you you don't know it will go in detail discussion. So in case of virtual
discussion, it sometimes happens

 OK.

 that that discussion may go into
big detail, lengthy one and and in sometimes you you will need
some preparation. You may not know that, but in
case, let's say.

 Umm. (...)

 It let's say in case if you are
on site and you you are near in a discussion room and you will
definitely have a blackboard or some white board near you and
you you.

 Yeah, you will have a good
technical infrastructure, yeah.

 Yes. So which is EC to share with the
other person? The information then and there
we are used to it.

 Yeah.

 We are used to the, you know,
physical infrastructure way using our hands, we draw like
explain, but in it comes to.

 Yeah.

 Ohh, when it comes to, you know,
sometimes the detailed discussion, you know it
unexpectedly if it goes into a detailed discussion then we may
feel that preparation is more needed and we may have to
postpone. Uh, you know a 20 minute
discussion gets postponed for three days to three days just
because I preparation was not there.

 OK. OK. OK. That's that's a good insight. What challenges have you
encountered in the hybrid meetings and how have they
affected your experience? But I I will, I will start with
an example like for me sometimes I get zoned out during the
meetings because it's a lot and sometimes I don't follow what,
what, what the what are the other guys are saying because it
may be a possibility that I am not aware with that technical
thing or I'm not aware with that technical module. So that is the challenge I
experience in the hybrid

 Hmm.

 meetings, because then I feel
that, OK, if I would have been with someone in the room, I
would have just asked? Asked. Asked them I I would. I've just muted the mic and
asked them dude, what is this or what? What? What is this? Or can you tell me in like a
short way, but indie hybrid meetings, I cannot do that
because I'm on my screen. So are there any such kinds of
challenge which you which you fail during the hybrid meetings?

 I see this zoning out, OK, so
when you send, you can ask in hybrid you cannot ask in hybrid
meeting or you said you can ask.

 Yeah, I mean, because the, the,
the, the speaker is talking and then it's not like for me it's
it's not polite to like unmute myself and ask the speaker
sometimes because speaker is in a flow, speaker is talking and
then if I hammer the speaker with some basic questions, then
yeah, it may, it may impact the flow of the meeting. So that's why for me, I prefer
to stay muted and then ask the speaker afterwards after the
session. But I sometimes feel like if I
would have been in a room in, in a in onsite collaboration kind
of thing, so then I would have just asked my colleague that OK,
are you aware with this if you are aware with this then what is
this? And the colleague would have
just told me in like 5 two to five minutes and then I would
have followed the whole meeting. So I feel this difference that
these challenges are there the the collaboration challenges. But so I I it's just my example,
I just wanna find out what's your what are your your
challenges which you face.

 Hmm. OK, so this zoning out happens
normal weather. If you are in the room, yes, and
or if you are in remote anywhere

 Umm.

 but in even in in case. Even if you are near an onset,
also sometimes you cannot. You may not feel to ask your
teammate unless he's also. He's also, like, not the, you
know, isn't the same same boat as you. You will feel that he he is also
kind of not.

 Yeah. OK. Umm.

 It's not in a right way to
explain things, so then it is

 But if OK.

 the same. So either you you are attending
it remotely or even if you have it in onsite. But yeah, after the discussion,
yes, if it's on site also. Yeah, if it's a remote
discussion also. So after the meeting you. Yeah, you have more time to
discuss even if you are friend

 No.

 doesn't know. You can contact another person
you know whom you are. You, your friend, can point to a
person who knows it, but then if you are in a hybrid meeting or
in a remote meeting, and if one says you don't know you, if you
keep asking others like ohh someone else may know, then you
will. You will not be able to
understand many more things that may be possible. You might have lost more things
than you, and because of 1 particular thing, so it is
always better I feel and it can happen in whether it is honset
or remote. Like if you feel something
you're missing out, you make a

 OK.

 note of it and and that's what I
do. I make a note of it and I ask it
later. Uh, if it is really important,
yeah.

 Mm-hmm.

 If it's really important and I
will sit near a person who knows more things, who about the
discussion and yeah, I I do ask is an advantage on that. But if if if it feels like we
are disturbing them because they may also need to concentrate
more on the discussion. So I feel mostly I will not ask
you during the discussion unless it is a right opportunity. I feel if it's the right time to
ask it, otherwise if it's on site or remote, it is the same
like I feel in my opinion.

 OK, OK. So coming back to the
suggestions which you mentioned, like there should be a a like a
collaboration platform for for

 Yeah.

 for the like concept board at
something else, do we have any additional suggestions on that
lines or on any other another lines for enhancing the hybrid
meeting experience?

 Uh, OK. So the more hybrid meetings we
have, uh, the more, uh interaction and teamwork will be
achieved. The less it is, the benefits
will not be easily seen. This is what I am with the
lesser examples.

 OK. OK.

 We will not see the like once in
a once in a week is not. Once in a week is not a good way
to have achieve the benefits of. I know, I know.

 Umm.

 I group once in a in a in a
hybrid meetings, maybe especially if it's a new team. Members are new. I think Members need to be
involved more in hybrid discussions that will make it
more interesting.

 OK, OK.

 Maybe with people who are
already, you know, in that team for a long time, the hybrid
meetings, maybe one or two doesn't make a difference, but
it makes difference for newcomers.

 Umm OK, which form of meeting do
you find suitable and like on site hybrid or completely
remote?

 I feel.

 Like in your personal preference
which you find better like on site hybrid or completely
remote.

 It depends on. It depends on the discussion. If it's a lengthy discussion
where we need to share in exchange information, I prefer
on site or hybrid discussions.

 OK. OK, no.

 But if it's not a discussion
where you don't need to share much, just online update, it is
OK to have it in a a on site.

 Yes. Yeah.

 You don't have to go to a room.

 Umm.

 Set it up, you know, on set. Actually, you know, in case of
short discussions on site meetings, do save a lot of time.

 OK, OK.

 So a 10 minute discussion can
happen in a 5 minute. The yeah, I know. If it's nothing much offline
information, share is happening.

 Yeah, yeah.

 So there is on site. I will say it's an advantage,
but in case if exchange of information is needed, yes, then
it is better to have on site like hybrid meetings, yes.

 Umm, OK, OK. OK. Then I think that's it. I'll just stop the recording
first.

 Yep. 