

 Hmm. I guess, yeah, it started
now, so I'll just quickly go through the first question.

 OK.

 So how often do you participate
in hybrid meetings and what is your usual role in these
meetings?

 OK. I would say that approximately 2
to 3 meetings per day. Not more than. Usually I would say that not
more than one hour per day, unless sometimes certain days
there would be cluttered

 Mm hmm. (...)

 meetings and it can go up to
spending 3 hours a day.

 OK. So so like maximum, how many
participants are there with you if you are on site, if you're
joining from one site?

 If I joined from on site it
again, it would depend on the day of the week because most of
the people in the company tend

 Mm. (...)

 to come on. Wednesdays, then Thursdays, so
if it's Friday, the number of

 OK.

 people will be really low.

 Mm hmm.

 And that role, my role in
meeting. I I would say that most of the
time I am a passive listener.

 OK.

 Yeah.

 OK. Second one is preparation.
If if you are going into a hybrid meeting, how do you
prepare for it and how does that differ from other types of
meetings?

 OK.

 Is there any? Is there any
special thing which you do when you go for hybrid meetings?

 OK, it it it mostly depends on
my role in the meeting. OK. So

 OK, OK.

 if I if I'm supposed to be
taking on a lead role and I'm supposed to present something in
such scenarios, I try to prepare

 Mm hmm.

 beforehand on what needs to be
presented during the meeting.

 OK.

 Other times, if I am just a
listener then I just go in without any preparation, even if
it is hybrid meeting or otherwise as well.

 OK, OK. So coming to the next
part which is engagement, have you noticed any differences in
how remote and onsite participants interact during the
meetings?

 Yes.

 For example. OK OK.

 Mm hmm, yeah, definitely there
is more active participation from all the members. If it is
remote, sorry, I'll on site meetings. Whereas on hybrid
meetings I have often found that the participation is very low
from the listeners and often it is a monologue from the host of
the meeting.

 Post of the meeting, OK.

 Yeah.

 OK, in your experience, the
remote participants contribute as much as those who are on
site.

 During the meetings.

 Yeah. During the hybrid
meetings.

 I don't think so.

 OK. And how do you, how do you
perceive the contribution of remote participants in
comparison to those who are on site? How do you feel about it?

 Personally, I have felt that it
is very easy to get distracted during the hybrid meetings. I'd
either.

 OK.

 You might be looking your phone
and doing something for entertainment, or you could be
focusing on your own work while

 Mm hmm.

 the meetings are going on.
Either way, I feel like there is a lack of active listening
during the hybrid meetings, whereas on site meetings you
have the complete attention towards what's being discussed
during the meetings and that's why I I feel participation is
also more during the onset.

 OK, OK. So so like, have you
observed any biases about remote or on site participants? Usually
what what do they do in the have it in meetings? Is there any
bias from your side? Have you observed it?

 Bias from the participants. I no, I wouldn't say it.

 OK. OK. OK. Then yeah, moving
on. Do you have the feeling that

 OK.

 some groups are formed during
onset collaboration and if so, what could be the reasons?

 During offsite or on site on
site.

 On site on site collaboration,
yeah.

 No, I I I have the opposite
experience. To be frank. I I

 OK.

 think during on site
discussions, the entire team to be involved, whereas our remote
meetings I feel are contributing towards more group is somewhere
only certain people are involved in certain discussions and the
information is restricted from

 OK.

 the rest of the group.

 Uh, huh. And what do you think
about social groups when when we are on on site are are are there
in social group formation, is there in social group formation?

 To be frank, no, because our
teams are usually very small, not having more than four to
five people from each

 Mm hmm.

 geographical location. So sub
subgroups among that is very less common, even if it is just
for having lunch. We all try to go together. So the social group
is groupism is not there. We are all feeling as one team.

 OK. OK. OK. So so like this
group formation which you told in like in the remote aspect,
how do you think that the dynamics this these dynamics
influence the overall success of the team? If there is a group formation.

 And definitely this is one of
the reasons why the information silos are being formed within
the team.

 OK.

 Where only few people are
involved in the working of 1 cert, PBI or something and.

 Exactly.

 The knowledge about that is also
not getting transferred to rest of the team. So I think maybe maybe what
could have helped is a kind of a not KT per SE, but maybe a
demonstration of the workflow at the end of the sprints to
understand what they have implemented, at least from a
bird's eye view, if not going deep into the code, at least an
overview would help.

 OK, OK. Uh, huh. Uh huh.

 So that kind of conversation is
required to educate the entire team about what's going on
between each of the groups in the team.

 OK, OK. So coming to the next
part of the question, what kinds of tools do you use to
facilitate the communication or collaboration in hybrid
meetings?

 Of course we are using Microsoft
Teams for the meeting itself,

 Yeah, yeah, yeah.

 which comes with lots of
features. There is whiteboard option available which sometimes
we use for organising the tasks apart from apart from the
assured DevOps dashboard itself, you can like when we were
working on a particular large topic we used to have a list of
subtopics for our own reference and the teams does give the
option to put those sticky notes and move them to in progress or
done. Which we used to do.

 OK.

 Apart from that, we also might
use SharePoint. For sharing some codes or files
or test data which others might not have. So when you prepare
it, you share it with others as well. And on top of that, lately we
have been trying to focus on some design diagrams as well, so
it might come in draw dot IO or. Mermaid or any other tools which
are using for? Drawing these architectural
diagrams and sharing across the team.

 OK, OK. And and do you think
that these tools which you mentioned, they integrate well
into the meeting environment?

 Yes, I would think so.

 OK, OK. And the how does the
experience of participating virtually compare to being
physically present in the meeting?

 I I'm fine with both.

 OK.

 Comparing. I I don't know. I I feel both
are good options if they are put into use in the right way.

 OK, let me put it in this way.
If if there is a meeting in which you are joining completely
remote and then there is another

 Hmm.

 meeting in which you are on site
with some people, do you feel a difference in the experience in
the collaboration or in anything?

 And in that sense, yes, I would
say that there is definitely more collaboration on site.

 OK.

 But with the right approaches, I
think the collaboration can also be improved within the hybrid
meetings as well.

 Mm hmm. Mm hmm mm hmm. OK, So
what, what challenges have you encountered in hybrid meetings,
and how have they affected your experience?

 Yeah, like I mentioned before, I
personally struggle keeping my attention or to my concentration
gets. Yeah. Yeah, I do tend to

 Yeah, yeah. Same with me. Same
with me.

 get distracted a lot during the
online meetings.

 Yeah. Or zone out zone out. I
zone out for me.

 Exactly. Exactly right. I might
not be even doing anything but.

 Yeah.

 I I'd just simply be sitting,
not listening, neither doing anything.

 Yeah. And sometimes for me, it's
like the the discussion is too too, too much granular granular.
And if I don't know that technical aspect, then yeah, I I
just you know. I completely go out of the
meeting because then I find it like really impolite to
interrupt the speaker and ask the basic questions. So for me
this is the challenge that if someone is speaking in, in the
hybrid meetings, you cannot just unmute yourself and ask them the
basic question. I can do that if if we are on site, maybe I can
just interrupt the person and I can just ask them. But in hybrid
meetings, as everyone is listening, so I find it like
really really. Challenging.

 I agree with that one. One other
challenge I found is that

 Yeah, yeah.

 sometimes the way that people
are communicating is overcomplicated things that
could be easily communicated in simple English. I feel like
people are twisting it and making it hard to understand or
comprehend.

 Yeah, yeah, yeah.

 Yeah, that's also something I
have noticed.

 Uh, huh. What are your
suggestions for enhancing the hybrid meeting experience?

 Probably I think one way I would
listen more would be if my camera is on.

 OK.

 Because then at least I would be
conscious that I am on a meeting, which I tend to forget
sometimes when I'm just. Yeah,

 Yeah, yeah, yeah.

 so I I I feel like that would
improve our listening as well as this would automatically improve
our participation in the meeting

 Mm hmm.

 as well because if we listen we
understand something and we did tend to have more doubts and we
would try to clarify them during

 OK.

 the meeting itself. But what
happens right now is that I, I, I might be picking up some task
without. Proper clarity on it and while
I'm working on it, I do get doubts and then I have to go
back to someone and clarify it.

 Yeah, yeah.

 So that could be eliminated like
if we are already listening

 Mm hmm.

 during the meetings.

 OK. And the last question is
which form of meeting do you find suitable on site hybrid or
completely remote?

 I I would say hybrid because in
that way you give people both options. You are not forcing
anyone to come to office because

 Mm.

 some people might have, you
know, some.

 Yeah. (...)

 Something to do with home
because they some people have kids or parents to take care of,
so we should give that flexibility. So I would say
hybrid.

 Yeah, yeah. OK. OK. Then I'll just stop the
recording first. Now because we

 OK.

 are done. Just wait. Stop the recording. 